The birth of Simon Arthur Henry Fitzranulph Basset, Earl Clyvedon, was met with great
celebration. Church bells rang for hours, champagne flowed freely through the gargantuan castle
that the newborn would call home, and the entire village of Clyvedon quit work to partake of the
feast and holiday ordered by the young earl's father.
"This," the baker said to the blacksmith, "is no ordinary baby."
For Simon Arthur Henry Fitzranulph Basset would not spend his life as Earl Clyvedon. That
was a mere courtesy title. Simon Arthur Henry Fitzranulph Basset— the baby who possessed
more names than any baby could possibly need—was the heir to one of England's oldest and
richest dukedoms. And his father, the ninth Duke of Hastings, had waited years for this moment.
As he stood in the hall outside his wife's confinement room, cradling the squalling infant, the
duke's heart near burst with pride. Already several years past forty, he had watched his cronies—
dukes and earls, all—beget heir after heir. Some had had to suffer through a few daughters
before siring a precious son, but in the end, they'd all been assured that their lines would
continue, that their blood would pass forward into the next generation of England's elite.
But not the Duke of Hastings. Though his wife had managed to conceive five times in the fifteen
years of their marriage, only twice had she carried to full term, and both of those infants had
been stillborn. After the fifth pregnancy, which had ended with a bloody miscarriage in the fifth
month, surgeons and physicians alike had warned their graces that they absolutely must not make
another attempt to have a child. The duchess's very life was in danger. She was too frail, too
weak, and perhaps, they said gently, too old. The duke was simply going to have to reconcile
himself to the fact that the dukedom would pass out of the Basset family.
But the duchess, God bless her, knew her role in life, and after a six-month recuperative period,
she opened the connecting door between their bedrooms, and the duke once again commenced
his quest for a son.
Five months later, the duchess informed the duke that she had conceived. The duke's immediate
elation was tempered by his grim determination that nothing—absolutely nothing—would cause
this pregnancy to go awry. The duchess was confined to her bed the minute it was realized that
she'd missed her monthly courses. A physician was brought in to visit her every day, and
halfway through the pregnancy, the duke located the most respected doctor in London and paid
him a king's ransom to abandon his practice and take up residence at Clyvedon Castle
temporarily.
The duke was taking no chances this time. He would have a son, and the dukedom would remain
in Basset hands.
The duchess experienced pains a month early, and pillows were tucked under her hips. Gravity
might keep the babe inside, Dr. Stubbs explained. The duke thought that a sound argument, and,
once the doctor had retired for the evening, placed yet another pillow under his wife, raising her 
to a twenty-degree angle. She remained that way for a month.
And then finally, the moment of truth arrived. The household prayed for the duke, who so
wanted an heir, and a few remembered to pray for the duchess, who had grown thin and frail
even as her belly had grown round and wide. They tried not to be too hopeful—after all, the
duchess had already delivered and buried two babes. And even if she did manage to safely
deliver a child, it could be, well, a girl.
As the duchess's screams grew louder and more frequent, the duke shoved his way into her
chamber, ignoring the protests of the doctor, the midwife, and her grace's maid. It was a bloody
mess, but the duke was determined to be. present when the babe's sex was revealed.
The head appeared, then the shoulders. All leaned forward to watch as the duchess strained and
pushed, and then...
And then the duke knew that there was a God, and He still smiled on the Bassets. He allowed
the midwife one minute to clean the babe, then took the little boy into his arms and marched into
the great hall to show him off.
"I have a son!" he boomed. "A perfect little son!"
And while the servants cheered and wept with relief, the duke looked down upon the tiny little
earl, and said, "You are perfect. You are a Basset. You are mine."
The duke wanted to take the boy outside to prove to everyone that he had finally sired a healthy
male child, but there was a slight chill in the early April air, so he allowed the midwife to take
the babe back to his mother. The duke mounted one of his prized geldings and rode off to
celebrate, shouting his good fortune to all who would listen.
Meanwhile, the duchess, who had been bleeding steadily since the birth, slipped into
unconsciousness, and then finally just slipped away.
The duke mourned his wife. He truly did. He hadn't loved her, of course, and she hadn't loved
him, but they'd been friends in an oddly distant sort of way. The duke hadn't expected anything
more from marriage than a son and an heir, and in that regard, his wife had proven herself an
exemplary spouse. He arranged for fresh flowers to be laid at the base of her funereal monument
every week, no matter the season, and her portrait was moved from the sitting room to the hall,
in a position of great honor over the staircase.
And then the duke got on with the business of raising his son.
There wasn't much he could do in the first year, of course. The babe was too young for lectures
on land management and responsibility, so the duke left Simon in the care of his nurse and went
to London, where his life continued much as it had before he'd been blessed by parenthood,
except that he forced everyone—even the king—to gaze upon the miniature he'd had painted of
his son shortly after his birth.